chamber-foods
Chamber Foods is an IoT project combining smart appliances, artisanal foods, and DIY. There are a variety of foods that require highly controlled environmental conditions for long periods of time, one such example is cured meats (i.e. charcuterie). Traditionally these processes have been left to master craftspeople, with the risk of failure and inconsistency always a threat due to difficulties in maintaining environmental conditions. To overcome these challenges, whilst making the process of environmentally controlled food production more accessible to those non-skilled in the art, Chamber Foods proposes to use temperature and humidity sensor devices to measure conditions in a closed environment (i.e. a chamber). To allow easy control over these conditions, users will be able to define set points and monitor the measurements remotely via a series of interfaces. The defined setpoints will trigger automated actuation of heating, cooling, dehumidifying and humidifying processes. To support the accessibility of this project to a broad user base, as well as promoting sustainability, the chamber will consist of a second-hand minifridge. Furthermore, heating will occur via a heater unit, humidifying will occur via a humidifying unit, and cooling/dehumidifying will occur by powering the refrigerator. A fan will also be used to circulate air whenever the heating or cooling units are activated. Using a second-hand refrigerator within the system means that a potential future business model could provide a near “out of the box solution” for a smart appliance, without the difficulties in distributing bulky refrigerators. Future iterations of the product could seek to generate a community of users within a digital platform sharing different “recipes” for multiple food types, including cured meats, mushrooms, dried fruits, fermented foods, or plants. The number of units for controlling conditions could also be expanded in the future, including items such as UV lights, load cells, cameras, or injection ports for air/water/etc.
